AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY INTEGRITY LEVELS

 What is ASIL?
ASIL is a key component of ISO 26262 and it is used to measure the risk of a specific system component.
The more complex the system, the greater risk of systematic failure and random hardware failures.

There are 4 ASILs named from A to D.

ASIL A is the minimum level of risk and ASIL D is the maximum as you go from A to D, the compliance requirements get stricter.

When determining Automotive Safety Integrity Levels, there’s also a fifth option — QM (quality management). 
This is used to note that there isn’t a safety requirement for that component. (But it’s typically still a good idea to comply in order to improve product quality.)

How to Determine ASIL?
ASIL is determined by three factors — severity, exposure, and controllability.

Severity
Severity measures how serious the damages are of a system failure. Damages include both people and property.

There are four classes of severity:

S0: No injuries.
S1: Light to moderate injuries.
S2: Severe to life-threatening (survival probable) injuries.
S3: Life-threatening (survival uncertain) to fatal injuries.
Exposure
Exposure is the likelihood of the conditions under which a particular failure would result in a safety hazard.

The probability of each condition is ranked on a five-point scale:

E0: Incredibly unlikely.
E1: Very low probability (injury could happen only in rare operating conditions).
E2: Low probability.
E3: Medium probability.
E4: High probability (injury could happen under most operating conditions).
Controllability
Controllability is a measure of the probability that harm can be avoided when a hazardous condition occurs. This condition might be due to actions by the driver or by external measures.

The controllability of a hazardous situation is ranked on a four-point scale:

C0: Controllable in general.
C1: Simply controllable.
C2: Normally controllable (most drivers could act to prevent injury).
C3: Difficult to control or uncontrollable.
