
ISO26262

Introduction:

"Road vehicles"- Functional Safety- It is an international standard for functional safety of electrical 
or electronic systems that are installed in road vehicles, defined by ISO in 2011.
This includes driver assistance, propulsion, and vehicle dynamics control systems.

History:

The standard ISO 26262 is an adaptation of the Functional Safety standard IEC 61508 for Automotive Electric/Electronic Systems.
ISO 26262 defines functional safety for automotive equipment applicable throughout the lifecycle of all automotive electronic 
and electrical safety-related systems.The first edition (ISO 26262:2011), published on 11 November 2011, was limited to electrical
and/or electronic systems installed in "series production passenger cars" with a maximum gross weight of 3500 kg. The second edition (ISO 26262:2018),published
in December 2018, extended the scope from passenger cars to all road vehicles except mopeds.

Aim:

ISO 26262 is a risk-based safety standard, where the risk of hazardous operational situations is qualitatively assessed and safety measures are defined
to avoid or control systematic failures and to detect or control random hardware failures, or mitigate their effects.

Goals:

1.Provides an automotive safety lifecycle (management, development, production, operation, service, decommissioning)
and supports tailoring the necessary activities during these lifecycle phases.

2.Covers functional safety aspects of the entire development process (including such activities as requirements specification,
design, implementation, integration, verification, validation, and configuration).

3.Provides an automotive-specific risk-based approach for determining risk classes (Automotive Safety Integrity Levels, ASILs).

4.Uses ASILs for specifying the item's necessary safety requirements for achieving an acceptable residual risk.
Provides requirements for validation and confirmation measures to ensure a sufficient and acceptable level of safety is being achieved.


Importance:

Specific steps are required in each phase. This ensures safety from the earliest concept to the point when the vehicle is retired.
By complying with this standard, you’ll avoid or control systematic failures. And you’ll detect or control random hardware failures. 
(Or, you’ll mitigate the effects of failure.)

The functional safety standard covers all of the functional safety aspects of the entire development process:

Requirements specification
Design
Implementation
Integration
Verification
Validation
Configuration


The 10 parts of ISO26262:

Part1: Vocabulary - terms, abbreviations or definitions for app in all parts of the standard.
for eg: item:Specific sys(combination of systems).starting point for  product-specific 
safety development under this standard.
Element:A sys, or hardware or software unit in a sys that can be distinctly identified or manipulated.
Fault: Abnormal condition that can cause an element to fail.
Error: self explainatory
Fault Tolerance: Ability to deliver a specified func in the presence of one or more specified faults.
Malfunc behaviour:
Hazard: 

Part2: Management of Functional safety.
Hazardous Event
Safety Goals
ASIL
Safety Requirements

part3: Concept phase
part4: Product development at system level.
part5: product development at hardware level.
part6: Product development at software level.
part7: Product and operation
part8: Supporting processes.
part9: ASIL-oriented and safety-oriented analysis
part10: Guidlines on safety standard.

Reference: https://www.perforce.com/blog/qac/what-is-iso-26262
           https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_26262
video for reference: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_26262---- ISO26262- Functional Safety at a Glance